# ROS_Exercises

This repository contains simple examples implementing different tasks using Robot Operating System (ROS).  By attending online course “ROS for Beginners” offered by Mr. Edouard Renard on “Udemy”, I have learnt many new things regarding ROS and therefore I have created these repository, so that others can also take benefit of it. During the course, some tasks are assigned by the instructor so that learners can implement what they have learnt. The distribution of ROS used here is “ROS Melodic Morenia” on Ubuntu 18.04.
It must be mentioned here that ROS concepts can be implement using both C++ and Python. Since same operations can be performed equally well using both programming languages, therefore it is just a matter of personal preference of a programmer to use which one. For the sake of better understanding, I have implemented all four assignment tasks using both C++ & Python3 and codes for both are provided in this repository. Another thing worth mentioning is that it is also quite possible that a node implemented in Python publishes to a topic and another node written in C++ subscribes to same topic. 
As there are four assignment tasks, so in coming four paragraphs, I’ll explain each task briefly.

Exercise-0
In this exercise, two services have been created with names “add_two_ints_server” & “add_two_ints client” which act as Server and Client respectively and communicate via Service named “add_two_ints” of type “AddTwoInts”.  Client requests the Server with two numbers (2 & 6 in Python and 12 & 5 in C++). Server takes two numbers and responses with the sum of both. Client then displays the sum on terminal. If, due to any reason, client fails to use service “add_two_ints” then it displays an error on terminal that Service failed.

Exercise-1
Two nodes “number_publisher” and “number_counter” have been created in this task. “number_publisher” node generates a random number between 0 and 9 and publishes it to a topic named “/number” with message type “std_msg/Int64” and frequency 1. “number_counter” node acts both as subscriber and publisher. It subscribes to the topic “/number”, receives the message of type “std_msg/Int64” and displays the randomly created number generated by “number_publisher”. At the same time, when it receives a number, it increments the Counter by 1 and display the value of Counter on terminal. After that, it publishes the value of Counter on a topic named “number_count” with message type “std_msg/Int64”. Same task has been performed both in C++ and Python3.

Exercise-2
Exercise-2 is just an extension of Exercise-1 in which counter value can be reset anytime. “number_publisher” node is exactly the same whereas a Service named “reset_counter” of type “std_srvs/SetBool” has been added in “number_counter”. When this service is called, it makes the value in counter equal to zero and displays on terminal that “Counter has been successfully reset”. Like the previous examples, task has been carried out both in C++ and Python3.

Exercise-3
In this exercise, two nodes “battery” and “led_panel” have been created which acts as client and server respectively. The node “battery” contains battery state whereas node “led_panel” contains the state of 3 LEDs.  As there is no real battery here, therefore programming has been done so that battery state switches from full to empty every 7 seconds and switches from empty to full state in 3 seconds. Similarly, there is no real LED panel available. So an array with all three zero values has been initialized. When a request to turn on a specific LED comes, corresponding element of array is changed from 0 to 1 or 1 to 0 indicating that LED has been turned on or off respectively. This array is then displayed on terminal as LED Panel. When battery is empty, it is required to send a request from client to server to power on the specified LED and when battery is full, then client sends request to server to power off the same LED. So, LED number (1 or 2 or 3) and state (0 or 1) should be passed by client on a service named “set_led” of type “SetLed” which server notices and responses after successful change of LED status.
	As it can be seen in figure, that when battery is empty then client passes 3 as LED number and 1 as state. Server turns on the 3rd LED and responses with a value ‘true’ that 3rd LED has been set on. In my code, I am turning on and off the 1st LED to better understand the things.
